my 42nd wedding anniversary happy anniversary
thank you it's a slightly cloudy day outside
sitting in the living room clint phillips house at
1704 glade and now we're going to stop and be sure
that it's working
clint before you came here um give us a brief
biographical summary of you where you grew up and
went to school and your academic experience
before you came to a m okay i was
drafted into the army in world war ii and almost
immediately became i was in the what was called the
asdp program but when i got into Fort Hayes, Ohio,
where I was literally admitted into the Army. I was
asked if I wanted to be an aviation cadet. I said
yes. I was sent to Jefferson Barracks for
pre-training and then on to Marietta College,
where I got the equivalent of almost a year's
college in five months. And then went on and did the
rest of the service bit. Came back and went to
Baldwin Wallace College in Berea, Ohio. Managed
to get through school working part time. and
started in the summer of 46, finished in the fall of
48, August of 48, and was at Vanderbilt working on a
master's September of 48. Came back a year later
and taught two years at Baldwin Wallace, then went
back to Vanderbilt to work on my doctorate which I
got, finished the dissertation after I had taken a
job, two years after I had taken a job in 1954 at the
University of Tennessee. So in 56 I got the Ph.D.
Now this is all in finance? This is in economics. I
got the degree in economics. I was in the economics
department at Tennessee.
Two years after I got the degree, I started out as an
instructor, became an assistant professor the
next year, an associate the third, which is kind of
phenomenal. Then I stayed an associate for a
while. But in 58, I moved to Tulane University in
New Orleans, where I remained until 1967. While
there, I twice served as an acting dean of a
business school.
as associate dean most of the time that I was there
when I was an acting dean. Came here in 67 as a full
professor. By then I was a full professor at
Tulane.
Found it to be quite a startling difference. Do you
want me to go into that? Let me break in at this
point. How did you and A&M become linked up? What
was the process? I had chaired a seminar for
visiting faculty members at Tulane. Tulane was in
the forefront of introducing the computer to the
business
college environment In fact, I was one of the first
to use a business game for decision-making
purposes on an old IBM 1650, which took 55 minutes
to process a decision, which would go in a snap of a
finger now. I had this program and George Rice from
the management department came from A&M as a
participant. He went back and later I got a letter
from here from George saying could I recommend
some people that were graduates of our program and
I mentioned some and I also said I might be
interested. because I was getting kind of tired of
the school situation in New Orleans, which you may
know is particularly difficult at that time. We
had our child and both children in private schools
because the public schools are so bad.
So anyway, to make a long story short, I came here in
67 as a professor of management. management. And
let's see, I'm not going to ask any other dollars in
this. What was the beginning salary? Sixteen
fifty. Sixteen thousand five hundred. For nine
months. For nine months. And you... And one of the
reasons I was interested in this place is that the
AAUP bulletin had listed the five or three or
whatever top schools in terms of percentage
increases in salary. And I thought that was
interesting. So I came here making more than I'd
been making as a teen at Tulane, which wasn't a lot
of money. I mean, the year before, I think Tom
Saving had come at around 40 or 45K,
but he was well known. At that point,
organizationally, business was a school or was it
yet a college? It was still a school, and the dean
was... Hubert? Hubert. Yeah. So it was a school
within the
College of Arts and Sciences. That's correct.
John Pearson was the director. Who were the key
business faculty and administrator leaders at
that time?
Well, I suppose George Rice would have been one of
them in management. John Pearson was serving as a
business analysis acting head, even though he was
a director. Marketing, oh, I've forgotten his
name, but he's still here.
Accounting was a fellow named Jack Coleman. He
left shortly after and became a dean somewhere in
California.
Anyway. What was the reputation of A&M in general
business? Just getting off the ground, really. It
wasn't a college. It was not accredited by the
American Association of Collegiate Schools of
Business. But I saw this place as a you know, a place
whose time had come. And, you know, in hindsight, I
was right. But so were a lot of people at that time. I
don't take any special... What was, for you and
your family, what was your impression of the
community when you arrived? Well, of course, we
came from New Orleans, where we had our own waiter
at Antoine's, and the same one the business school
used all the time. And so this was a terrible shock.
For Judy, it was fortunate there was a fledgling
League of Women Voters group developing, and she
got involved in that. She'd been in the League
since the days we were in Knoxville. She'd been a
secretary of the State League in Louisiana. So she
was really into that. That helped. And the kids
were happy in the school here. How did you find the
quality of the schools, local? Quite good. They
went to South Knoll over here. So that was good, but
otherwise, you know, when you're used to dining
out, it was the Texan, and that was that. One of the
things that kind of wowed me was I was taken over to
see the president when I was being interviewed,
and so... Earl Rutter and I talked for about thirty
minutes about the Jolly Green Giant of New Orleans
the Attorney General there who was involved in the
Kennedy assassination business Jim Garrison was
his name he was called there the Jolly Green Giant
so did Rutter know him or anything no he didn't know
him but he was really up on politics of course And it
had happened, the assassination of course in
Dallas, and I suppose he knew a whole lot about
that. What was your impression of Rutter based on
that conversation?
really, I was not really impressed. I thought gee
whiz, this guy is president of a major university
and the kind of people I'd known as presidents
before were more academic. I subsequently became
extraordinarily impressed by what he did and I
said so publicly in fact got a nice comment from
Mrs. Rudder Margaret about Oh you're meaning
after his passing? No even while I was still here
and got to know really what a role he had played in
turning this place in the right direction and of
course with Jack Williams coming on after him it
was a perfect combination What about the quality
of the students when you first arrived? Did they
make any impression? I thought the students were
reasonably good. I was not impressed with the
graduate students. But they have since, of
course, become... I remember I had two cases of
plagiarism in a master's course. It just amazed me
that they had... One guy had gone all the way
through undergraduate school and had never
written a paper, which really distressed me.
kind of, it was still a Bush League school in my
judgment. People who had doctorates flouted it. I
found that Bush League at Tulane, we went to great
pains to put Mr. So and So on the door. Although
students might call you Doctor. Everybody was
Mister. Everybody was Mister. It was, there was an
enormous, Chicago, University of Chicago had an
enormous influence on Tulane, in part because so
many Chicago PhDs were there. Anyway, there was a
lot that really bothered me about this place. I
fell in with a group that met over in that round
circle, rotunda kind of thing in the YMCA
building, a lunch bunch, met every Friday or every
once a month, I don't know, and we gave little
papers, and it was sort of a hatchery. Did we call
that the Brown Baggers? Yeah, it was called the
Brown Baggers, that's what it was. I wish there was
such as that now. I'd love to be part of one again.
Yeah. Because that was fun. I thought it was fun.
Now, all right, did you have, in those first years,
did you have much interaction with John Pearson?
Yeah, a good bit, and as a matter of fact, within
two years, the end of the second year, about to
enter the third year. I'm walking across the
campus with him, and he says, I've got a terrible
problem. I hired a guy to be head of the finance
department, and he called me this noon and said he
can't come. He didn't know that he didn't have a
Ph.D. Guy was getting it at Northwestern. He
looked good on paper, but in any event, didn't
come. He said, will you serve? His words were, I'm
not asking you, I'm telling you, I want you to be the
acting head of finance. So that was how I came to be
head of the finance department. I wasn't even in
the department. That
would be 69, fall of 69. Rutter's last full year.
That's right. I was in the academic council at the
time and sat in those meetings over which he
presided. Describe those meetings. Do you
remember any important topics you all discussed?
I'm
trying to remember one. It had to do with faculty
responsibility.
I'm vague about it but it had to do with putting more
regulations on faculty to make sure they were
coming to the office on time and things like that
and Rutter kind of said we expect people to do what
they're supposed to be doing but it was kind of an
interesting session. I remember Another, this
probably happened after Rutter had died, but
there was a furor or at least a little flame over
whether we should tear the old water tower down.
The then department head of Modern Languages,
whose name I've forgotten, who retired or It
doesn't ring a bell. His name starts with D, I
think. He fought for keeping the water tower. I
never thought I'd see somebody from liberal arts,
you know, doing that. Anyway, it went down, and we
got a new one. It was all pretty much...
Describe the department that you took over.
Consisted of three people. Oh, that's all? One who
had just arrived, one who had been around,
Marianne Piotrowski, who had excellent
credentials, master's from Sabon and a doctorate
from the London School, and then some guy that John
had picked up with a master's degree that lasted a
year. I mean, it was pitiful. And the courses were
all descriptive. A lot of insurance courses
taught by And he was on the city council. Herschel
Burgess? No, no, he died. Burgess, Keshner, his
wife.
Well, it's easy to look up. Anyway, he taught all
these insurance courses. Wayne Etter and I became
pretty close. He was my assistant department
head, which left only Piotrowski. who was a real
nice guy, but he reached sixty-five in a couple
years now, and in those days that was it. Anyway,
well, he threw out all the finance courses, I mean
all of the insurance courses, kept one, risk
management, and revitalized the whole program.
Yeah, you all were housed office-wise where? Oh,
next to the library in the old, what was the name of
it, the veterinary medicine school. then we
spread into the engineering school in fact I had
Benson's old office for a while and
then the the year well that was a later time when I
was acting dean anyway I had to have heart surgery
when I was 77 that was six years after I'd been
department head, almost finishing my sixth year.
Alright, let's back up. Do you remember any
personal reaction when you heard that Mr. Rutter
was ill or that he had died? Well, I think there was
great concern on campus about, naturally, one
wonders about the successor. I remember John
Pearson calling me to tell me who the successor
was, and I hadn't even heard of him, General
Ludicke, who I think was the ideal guy for the time.
Yes, I agree. Oh, but there was great sorrow. I
remember going to the service, as I'm sure you do,
and LBJ and Lady Bird were there, everybody who was
in it. The Shivers, the Connellys, and Teague and
all. And it was in Jolly Raleigh, yeah, and it was a
full house. Yes, yes. Impressive. Now, did you
have any interaction with Wayne Hall? Only when I
first came. I was very impressed with him.
Alright, then with Bill Graff, did you? Hardly
any. Alright, he followed as chief academic
officer. And, alright, when you first got here,
almost all male students. As I once said to
somebody, you walked across the campus propelled
on a sea of Howdies. It was, I found that a little
hard to take, hardly any women in the classes, but
one saw the signs of its changing, and so I took
heart from that. Alright, then Jack Williams
comes. Did you have any communication with him
early on? Not early on. I became, along with a chap
in the engineering college advisor to the Black
Awareness Committee. And they were taking
actions without we advisors even knowing what was
going on. So we did have a meeting with Jack
Williams and, oh geez, who was head of the
admissions office for so long, not the old guy. Not
Heaton? No, after Heaton. Ed Cooper? Ed Cooper.
Cooper was William's advisor for a while, wasn't
he? Went over, mostly we talked with Cooper about
the problem. Nothing ever came of it, but it all
worked out all right. But that was the early, I
don't know how I got involved with black
awareness, but somehow I did. Let's review that a
minute. Given your experience at a few other
places and here, do you remember any problems that
black students had here? How did, how were race
relations in those early years here? Well, there
were so few blacks that there didn't seem to be, and
there were almost none in the College of Business.
I don't, I honestly don't remember ever having a
black student in class. in those days or even in
subsequent years. In my years here until 1980, I
really don't remember any incidents, any
problems, any difficulties. I don't either. I
remember being amazed when one of, when the
student body president of Black was elected, Fred
McClure, that just blew my mind. I thought that was
really, I was impressed with the following. that
generally I thought race relations in Texas were a
whole lot better than they were in Louisiana, even
though South Louisiana was better than North
Louisiana. And incidentally, an aside, sometime
in the last year and a half, there were two programs
on NPR, one on how New Orleans handled the school
desegregation or desegregation generally, and
how Houston handled it. And the differences were
stark. And what was the name of our black board
member? There was a doctor. Anyway, he played
apparently a major undercover role in Houston on
that deal. Yes, I think so. I don't know what was his
name. Because to me, one of the interesting
features of the race relations here is we have a
number of youngsters from farms and ranches and
other rural settings, as well as urban
youngsters, and things seemed to mesh reasonably
well. They did that. I do seem to recall that one of
the early coaches when I came, football coaches,
seemed not ever inclined to have a black on the
team, but when blacks started doing good things
for the football team. I think that helped the
whole picture, too. Well, Emery Ballard
certainly recruited a number of black players
when he- Yes, it was his predecessor, whoever that
was. Alright, what were, how and who and when and
why did the business program begin to grow? I
suppose it really began to grow when it was set up as
a separate college. That gave it more prestige. We
sought accreditation from the AACSB and got it. On
the first try? Yes.
I believe so.
The strong departments, accounting had always
been a strong department, even back when it was
apparently in agriculture. Bill Adams, for
example, has a College of Agriculture degree in
accounting. My department, there were ten people
in it when I stepped down six years later. Or was it
eight years? It was eight years. Two four-year
terms I had. What we did was appeal to
graduate students, particularly in
agricultural finance. And so we brought in a
number of graduate students and said, remember in
the early days, if you were a department head, you
got a printout showing by professor what the
earnings were, by department, And per faculty
member, my department was earning far more money
than any others. We didn't have a big
undergraduate group like management did, you
know, they had to take all the students. So we were
really, and I was able to get some pretty good money
out of Pearson for graduate assistants. We had at
one time half of all the assistantship money in the
College of Business. So we were quite successful.
I hired Pete Rose, kind of a fluke, out of Dallas for
a bank, a Federal Reserve bank. He knew Don
Frazier, who's now the head of the Department of
Finance, and the two of them made banking a strong
subsection of that. So our department and all the
others took off. Was there ever any kind of,
committee or any other group that made a detailed
plan of action for business? Or was this
department by department? I've never heard of any
master plan. No, there wasn't. All right.
Describe Pearson as a dean. How did he operate?
I may have to edit this afterwards. Okay. Toward
the end, he and I had some problems.
Every Monday we would have a department heads
meeting and we'd talk about things but nothing
would ever come of it. It used to drive me nuts. One
of my fellow department heads would always keep
bringing stuff up and I kept trying to tell him on
the side, don't bring it up because nothing's
going to happen. So that was a disturbing thing for
me. And I know it galled John when I was made acting
head when he automatically submitted his
admission you know his resignation when he was
seen and
Jarvis Miller came in he submitted his
resignation like a cabinet member would to the
president of the United States and Jarvis Miller
picked it up Jarvis and he had apparently been in
the Dominican Republic or something years
earlier and gotten at swords points So John was
out. Well, I was asked to be acting dean. I don't
think that said well with John. But we did have some
Bad times. Subsequently, we made up, because we
used to party a lot together. There was a bunch of
folks, including John, who was good on a guitar and
a banjo. We'd sit around our pool lot there and
play. Let's see. Describe Williams as university
president from your point of view. He seemed like
the ideal president. I think the faculty just
thought the world of him.
I was impressed with, I think he was just the ideal
guy to succeed. When I'm very biased, I agree with
you. Yeah, I know you do. Well, I think the whole
faculty, anybody who was around. Why do you think
they did? Well, he was a classy guy, for one thing.
He knew what a real university was about, and
he was very affable. Certainly not military,
although his specialty was duels. But he had a very
distinguished marine career in World War II.
Yeah, most of us didn't even know about it, I guess.
And I believe Bob Walker told me that he one time, at
William's house, There were some Marines there,
and they cajoled him into putting on his old
uniform. Oh, be darned. And that nobody else that
I've ever talked to ever saw him in the uniform. No.
And I never heard him talk about his military. If
I'm not mistaken, he was wounded two or three
times. Is that right? I think he made five
landings. He was decorated and so forth. Let me
share with you Mr. Rudder's
recommendation. to Fort Albritton and John
Lindsay of why they should go get Jack Williams if
something ever happened to Rutter. The heart of it
was his experience at Clemson, a separate land
grant school in the south, once all male, once
compulsory military, once had a corps, once
segregated, limited curriculum, off the main
highway, 100 miles from the state capitol where
the state university was. that he had been through
experiences there just like we had been. And that
he was very, very well regarded in our education as
a leader. Coordinating. And in the coordinating
board. He also was the University of Tennessee,
wasn't he? He was the number two man in the
Tennessee system at the time they went after him.
Yeah. He had left Austin and gone to Tennessee.
Yeah. I heard good vibes from Tennessee about him.
So I understand. And I can't remember that
legendary president at Tennessee. Andy Holt.
Andy Holt. That Andy Holt was one of his role
models. And the more I know about Andy Holt, the
more I can see a little bit of Jack Williams, that
Andy was vexed. Very, very, very skillful, I
gather. He was a consummate politician, and he
knew what it was all about. It was said that you
could go to the headwaters of any creek, depending
upon how you pronounce it, in Tennessee, and
somebody up there would know. That's what I heard.
Did you have any interaction with Williams that
you can pass on to this machine? No, not really. Any
William stories, anecdotes? No, I was aware that
Dave Maxwell and he used to trade
jokes.
What was it that they were into?
Play on words kinds of things. Puns and all? Yeah,
puns. No, I really was, you know, at that time, in
the trenches. I do remember that when I was named
acting dean, the press interviewed me as acting
dean of the business school. And I was
complimentary of John Pearson, and Jack Williams
called me and thanked me for that. By then, he was
having his problems with the board. Alright,
let's jump forward then and get you closer to being
in the key role. Under, you were acting dean for how
long? A year. A year. And then went back to the
department?